Question 1 — Linux Navigation & File Management

To complete the tasks on the remote Linux server:

See files and folders:

Run: pwd → prints the current working directory so I know where I am.

Run: ls → lists all files and folders in the current directory.

This helps confirm I am in the right location.

Move into config folder:

Run: cd config → changes the current directory to config.

Risk: If the folder doesn’t exist, the command fails. I can check with ls first.

Read the contents of settings.conf:

Run: cat settings.conf → displays the file content in the terminal.

Alternative commands: less settings.conf or more settings.conf.

I choose cat because I just want to read, not edit the file.

Create a new folder backup:

Run: mkdir backup → creates a new directory called backup.

Risk: If a folder with the same name exists, it will fail. I can check with ls first.

Copy settings.conf to backup:

Run: cp settings.conf backup/ → copies the file into the backup folder.

Risk: If a file with the same name exists, it will be overwritten. I can use cp -i for interactive confirmation.

Delete server.log:

Run: rm server.log → deletes the file permanently.

Risk: Deleted files cannot be recovered easily, so I double-check with ls before running it.

Question 2 — Loops

Loops are a way to repeat a task multiple times in code. In Python, there are mainly two types:

for loops:

Used when you know exactly how many times you want the loop to run.

Example: printing numbers from 1 to 100:

for i in range(1, 101):
    print(i)

while loops:

Used when you want the loop to continue until a condition is met.

Example: asking a user to enter the correct password:

password = ""
while password != "secret123":
    password = input("Enter password: ")

Key advice:

Use for loops for fixed repetitions and while loops for condition-based repetition.

Be careful with while loops — if the condition is never met, the loop can run forever. You can stop it with Ctrl + C.

Question 3 — Immutable Data Types

In Python, data types are either mutable or immutable:

Mutable: can be changed after creation.

Examples: lists, dictionaries, sets.

You can add, remove, or modify elements.

Immutable: cannot be changed after creation.

Examples: strings, tuples, numbers.

If you try to change them, Python creates a new object instead.

Practical example: removing vowels from a string:

text = "hello"
new_text = ""

for char in text:
    if char not in "aeiou":
        new_text += char

print(new_text)  # Output: "hll"

The original string text doesn’t change because strings are immutable.

You create a new string new_text with the modifications.

Why it matters:

Helps avoid unintended changes to data.

Prevents bugs when multiple parts of a program reference the same object.

Question 4 — APIs and HTTP

An API (Application Programming Interface) is like a messenger between two applications:

Imagine a restaurant: the menu is the API. You (the client) place an order (request) via the menu, and the kitchen (server) sends back your food (response).

The API allows software to communicate without sharing internal details.

HTTP requests: ways a client asks the server to do something:

GET: ask for information (e.g., fetch user data).

POST: send new information to be stored (e.g., create a new account).

PUT / PATCH: update existing information.

DELETE: remove information.

Endpoint:

A specific URL where the API can access a resource.

Example: https://api.example.com/users/123 → endpoint for user 123.

In short:

The mobile app uses APIs to talk to the server.

Requests go over HTTP, the server processes them, and sends back responses.
